README.md, before:

# Reddit Trend Analysis
Real time sentiment analysis pipeline for Reddit data using Kafka streaming, MongoDB storage, and interactive dashboards.

## Table of Contents
- [Project Goal](#project-goal)
- [Architecture](#architecture)
- [Live Dashboard](#live-dashboard)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Setup Instructions](#setup-instructions)
- [Running the Pipeline](#running-the-pipeline)
- [Methodology](#methodology)
- [Automation](#automation)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
- [Future Enhancements](#future-enhancements)

## Project Goal
This project builds an end-to-end data pipeline that:
- Fetches Reddit posts and comments in real-time
- Streams data through Apache Kafka
- Performs sentiment analysis using NLTK VADER
- Stores processed data in MongoDB
- Visualizes trends through an interactive Streamlit dashboard

## Architecture
![Architecture Diagram](architecture.png)

## Live Dashboard
**Access the dashboard here:** (https://reddit-trend-analysis.streamlit.app/)

No installation required! View real-time Reddit sentiment analysis directly in your browser.

## Requirements

> **Note:** These requirements are only needed if you want to run the data pipeline locally. The dashboard is publicly accessible via the link above.

### Software
- Python 3.10+
- MongoDB Atlas account
- Confluent Cloud Kafka account
- Reddit API credentials

### Python Dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Setup Instructions

> **For developers only:** Follow these steps to run the complete pipeline locally.

### 1. Clone Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Basim592003/Reddit-Trend-Analysis.git
cd Reddit-Trend-Analysis
```

### 2. Create Virtual Environment
```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 3. Configure Environment Variables
Create `.env` file in root directory:
```
REDDIT_CLIENT_ID=your_client_id
REDDIT_CLIENT_SECRET=your_client_secret
REDDIT_USER_AGENT=your_user_agent

KAFKA_BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS=your_kafka_server
KAFKA_API_KEY=your_api_key
KAFKA_API_SECRET=your_api_secret

MONGO_CONNECTION_STRING=your_mongo_connection_string
```

### 4. Configure Subreddits
Edit `config.yaml` to specify subreddits to monitor:
```yaml
subreddits:
  - technology
  - news
  - worldnews
```

## Running the Pipeline

**Step 1: Start Producer**
```bash
cd producer
python reddit_producer.py
```

**Step 2: Start Consumer**
```bash
cd consumer
python reddit_consumer.py
```

**Step 3: Launch Dashboard Locally**
```bash
streamlit run dashboard.py
```
## Methodology

### Data Collection
- Reddit API (PRAW) fetches posts and comments from configured subreddits
- Multi-threaded producer handles rate limiting and continuous streaming
- Data serialized to JSON and published to Kafka topics

### Stream Processing
- Confluent Kafka handles message queuing with SASL_SSL security
- Consumer processes messages in real-time
- Duplicate detection via MongoDB unique indexes

### Sentiment Analysis
- NLTK VADER analyzer computes compound sentiment scores
- Range: -1 (negative) to +1 (positive)
- Scores stored with original post/comment data

### Storage
- MongoDB Atlas stores processed data
- Indexed fields: post_id, subreddit, timestamp, score
- TTL indexes for automatic data cleanup

### Visualization
- Streamlit dashboard provides real-time analytics
- Metrics: sentiment trends, top posts, subreddit comparisons
- Interactive filters and time-based analysis

## Automation

GitHub Actions workflows run automatically:
- **Producer**: Every 60 minutes
- **Consumer**: Every 30 minutes

Manual triggers available via `workflow_dispatch`

## Troubleshooting

**Reddit API Rate Limits:**
- Producer implements exponential backoff
- Reduce subreddit count in config.yaml

**Kafka Connection Issues:**
- Verify credentials in .env
- Check Confluent Cloud cluster status

**MongoDB Storage Limits:**
- Monitor Atlas storage usage
- Implement TTL indexes for cleanup

## Future Enhancements

- Add more sentiment models (transformer-based)
- Implement real-time alerts for viral posts
- Expand to multiple social media platforms

Commit message:

Revise project goal and future enhancements section
Updated project goal to include dual sentiment analysis and enhanced MongoDB storage details.

README.md, after:

# Reddit Trend Analysis
Real time sentiment analysis pipeline for Reddit data using Kafka streaming, MongoDB storage, and interactive dashboards.

## Table of Contents
- [Project Goal](#project-goal)
- [Architecture](#architecture)
- [Live Dashboard](#live-dashboard)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Setup Instructions](#setup-instructions)
- [Running the Pipeline](#running-the-pipeline)
- [Methodology](#methodology)
- [Automation](#automation)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
- [Future Enhancements](#future-enhancements)

## Project Goal

This project builds an end-to-end data pipeline that:
- Fetches Reddit posts and comments in real-time from multiple subreddits
- Streams data through Apache Kafka for distributed processing
- Performs dual sentiment analysis using NLTK VADER and Transformer models
- Stores processed data in MongoDB with automatic indexing
- Visualizes trends through an interactive Streamlit dashboard with live search capabilities

## Architecture
![Architecture Diagram](architecture.png)

## Live Dashboard
**Access the dashboard here:** (https://reddit-trend-analysis.streamlit.app/)

No installation required! View real-time Reddit sentiment analysis directly in your browser.

## Requirements

> **Note:** These requirements are only needed if you want to run the data pipeline locally. The dashboard is publicly accessible via the link above.

### Software
- Python 3.10+
- MongoDB Atlas account
- Confluent Cloud Kafka account
- Reddit API credentials

### Python Dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Setup Instructions

> **For developers only:** Follow these steps to run the complete pipeline locally.

### 1. Clone Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Basim592003/Reddit-Trend-Analysis.git
cd Reddit-Trend-Analysis
```

### 2. Create Virtual Environment
```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 3. Configure Environment Variables
Create `.env` file in root directory:
```
REDDIT_CLIENT_ID=your_client_id
REDDIT_CLIENT_SECRET=your_client_secret
REDDIT_USER_AGENT=your_user_agent

KAFKA_BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS=your_kafka_server
KAFKA_API_KEY=your_api_key
KAFKA_API_SECRET=your_api_secret

MONGO_CONNECTION_STRING=your_mongo_connection_string
```

### 4. Configure Subreddits
Edit `config.yaml` to specify subreddits to monitor:
```yaml
subreddits:
  - technology
  - news
  - worldnews
```

## Running the Pipeline

**Step 1: Start Producer**
```bash
cd producer
python reddit_producer.py
```

**Step 2: Start Consumer**
```bash
cd consumer
python reddit_consumer.py
```

**Step 3: Launch Dashboard Locally**
```bash
streamlit run dashboard.py
```
## Methodology

### Data Collection
- Reddit API (PRAW) fetches posts and comments from configured subreddits
- Multi-threaded producer handles rate limiting and continuous streaming
- Data serialized to JSON and published to Kafka topics

### Stream Processing
- Confluent Kafka handles message queuing with SASL_SSL security
- Consumer processes messages in real-time
- Duplicate detection via MongoDB unique indexes

### Sentiment Analysis
- NLTK VADER analyzer computes compound sentiment scores
- Range: -1 (negative) to +1 (positive)
- Scores stored with original post/comment data

### Storage
- MongoDB Atlas stores processed data
- Indexed fields: post_id, subreddit, timestamp, score
- TTL indexes for automatic data cleanup

### Visualization
- Streamlit dashboard provides real-time analytics
- Metrics: sentiment trends, top posts, subreddit comparisons
- Interactive filters and time-based analysis

## Automation

GitHub Actions workflows run automatically:
- **Producer**: Every 60 minutes
- **Consumer**: Every 30 minutes

Manual triggers available via `workflow_dispatch`

## Troubleshooting

**Reddit API Rate Limits:**
- Producer implements exponential backoff
- Reduce subreddit count in config.yaml

**Kafka Connection Issues:**
- Verify credentials in .env
- Check Confluent Cloud cluster status

**MongoDB Storage Limits:**
- Monitor Atlas storage usage
- Implement TTL indexes for cleanup
